>> Josh Long: But
how do I avoid passwords?
Well, you use a different factor here.
I'm using secure encoded passwords,
but it's still a password.
I want to avoid that even
with a password manager.
Still tedious.
So I can use a different factor.
One thing I can do, let's go back
to my code here is I go back to my.
I'm gonna add authorization.
I'm going to start actually configuring
the security filter chain that we talked
about earlier.
Okay, there we go.
And I'm going to say I want to enable.
I'll say build.
I'll say return that.
And here I'm going to do one time tokens.
We'll talk about this in a second.
I want to recreate the default behavior
which is what I'm overriding by creating
this bean.
So form login is what we had before.
I'm gonna recreate that.
That's still there, but
now I'm going to enable one time tokens.
So token generation success center.
Okay, and this, the way this works.
You've probably seen these before.
They're called like magic links
in other contexts, right?
You go to a website, you say,
it says, what's your email username?
Or whatever.
You say, okay, it's whatever joshlung.com
it sends you a link and you click
on the link and you're logged in.
The reasoning behind that being, okay,
well if you have access to your email,
you know, you must be who you say you are.
So we're not trusting that.
We have a system that's secure enough
to protect you, but we're trusting that
Google does, or Microsoft or whoever
administers your email account does.
Here's that callback.
I'm not going to set up Twilio or
SendGrid or whatever for you.
You can do that.
There's Java APIs and even spring
boot integrations for all that.
But let's just do a simple example.
Let's suppose I am going to send
a response to the client out of band.
I'm going to use a magical out of band
communication mechanism called console
mail where I just send
things to standard out.
So we're going to say
response.set header HTTP headers.
Wrong one, httpheaders.content.TYPE
MediaType is TEXT_PLAIN_VALUE, okay?
And then we're gonna say response.set or
getWriter.
This is the low level servlet API.
This is the API that underpins Spring MVC
and all the other stuff we've seen so far.
So I'm just using the low level thing.
I'm gonna say,
you've got console mail, right?
And then we'll say flush, okay?
And here, please visit and
it'll be HTTP localhost8080
login OTT token equals one time token.
Get token value.
Okay, so let's try that out.
So that's the token that's generated
by spring security for you.
Obviously this can be a lambda.
That's a lot nicer that way.
So now command shift n incognito window.
Okay, what happened?
I forgot to add the authorization.
What is this?
Since so
as soon as you define one of these,
you're overriding the defaults.
So you go back to zero.
You have no protection at all.
So when you start doing that,
make sure that you lock down
to get the equivalent effect.
I'm saying any request that comes
in needs to be authenticated.
Make sure you don't forget that.
Okay, so these two things are equivalent
to what you get out of the box.
If you don't define one of these
beans by yourself, you are saying,
I support login and
all requests need to be authenticated.
So hello.
Okay, look at that.
So I've got the username and
password just like before.
We can prove that.
Still working, right?
Good.
Go back to hello,
command shift n incognito window.
Now I'm going to ask for a console mail.
Okay, you've got console mail.
Great.
Click on this link, give me a token,
hit enter, and now I'm logged in.
You can prove it by going to hello.
Okay, so that's one time tokens or
magic links or whatever.
Again, you can send an email instead of
doing what I just did on the console.
You can send a phone message,
something like that.
Okay, so that avoids passwords.
You're trusting some other
factor besides the password.
But have you all set up passkeys?
Passkeys are pretty dope.
Have you heard of passkeys?
Passkeys, they're everywhere.
Google, GitHub, Microsoft.
Everybody's saying, hey,
every time you log in, they're like,
are you sure you don't
want to set up a passkey?
You should set up a passkey.
And it's actually pretty great.
It's the idea.
Are you using passkeys?
>> Speaker 2: I was just going to say that
we also have a course by Max Fertman that
covers some web authentication strategies,
including passkeys.
>> Josh Long: Yes, yes.
Okay, there you go.
Seconded.
Passkeys are super-duper good and
it's a marketing name for
a protocol called WebAuthn, right?
WebAuthn is a open specification
that allows you, basically,
to package up the idea of using a public
key in as palatable way as possible.
Usually by storing it in either
a trusted agent like your browser or
your operating system or
your password manager, right?
And then usually also federating it.
So, so
what does that mean in practical purposes?
It means I can use my face to
log into a web app on my iPhone.
Face ID.
It means I can use my touch sensor
to log into a web app on my Mac or
Windows or whatever.
I can use a yubikey,
an external key in certain devices.
I can use my watch, whatever.
In the Apple ecosystem, my public keys,
my pass keys are stored in icloud.
So any device to which I have access
can authenticate as me, right?
So let's set up Webauthn.
When I set up this project though, I had
to manually the rare manual addition.
I went out of my way to
manually type this in.
It's not on the spring initializer,
it's not on start.spring layout, okay, so
WebAuthn Core, I have to do that.
But now with that in,
I'm going to say webauthn web authn and
you've got a few things
you need to specify.
Allowed origins is this host import,
obviously.
Can you see that font
back there in the back?
I'm sorry about that.
I'm being greedy.
So I'll call this
Bootiful Frontend Masters, okay?
And then rpid is I just put local host.
Okay, it's distinct.
Okay, so let's go ahead and restart that.
It's a lot of work.
I don't do this kind of work lightly.
Okay.
It's like six lines of code, but
I think it's worth it.
So now I'm going to log in
with one of these three,
right, Josh PW, whatever, right?
Actually, here, let me make this.
I hate having to remember to redirect
myself back to that endpoint.
So let's just do that.
I'm very lazy.
Okay.
Okay, Josh P.W. great, that's worked.
Once you're logged in the normal way,
whether it's magic links or username and
passwords, then you go
to webauthn register.
Okay, so now I'm gona register
a passkey via the browser.
Now, before Mac OS 15.4,
I think the latest one,
latest big one, the passkeys for
all of macOS were stored in Safari.
So if you registered a passkey in Chrome,
you still had to go to Safari to delete
and manage and update them, right?
But now in the new one,
they have this passwords app, okay?
Passwords.app, it'll manage your passkey.
So I wanna make sure that I've
got the passkeys app loaded and
then passkeys, okay?
So you can see at the moment I've got
no passkeys in my passwords app, okay?
My operating systems password manager,
which is where you can find passkeys.
So I'm gonna call this mbp.
Now, there's two flows here.
They're both very useful.
So I'm going to do the first one.
Use touch ID to sign in.
Why, yes, yes, I will.
So I click on my little
finger there on the sensor.
Now I've got a passkey stored in the
operating system that was created today.
Doesn't give me anything more specific,
but whatever.
So now I go over here,
Incognito mode login.
Now I'm gonna say sign in with passkey,
okay, so you can ting.
Okay, so now I'm logged in, hello, Josh.
Nice?
If I go to the same app, same website,
in a completely new session,
go to my phone, I can do face id.
The same key works.
I don't have to register a face ID token,
right, or whatever.
It's shared, it's federated with iCloud.
My public key is presented by icloud.
So I can do that in any device that's
connected to my icloud account.
Super good.
Okay, now, what about the, so
common, I don't know when the last
time this was actually a thing that
happened to you, but when was the last
time you were in a library looking
up things on the web, right?
I get that it's a really common scenario,
but it hasn't been.
I don't even know where my library is.
Sadly, you know, I'm very lucky that way.
So I do want to take care
of that scenario though.
So that is one of the nice
strengths of passkeys.
I'm going to delete this.
Goodbye.
I no longer have a passkey.
I can't log into that website anymore.
So localhost:8080, okay?
So now I'm gonna log in again, Josh PW.
Okay, so now go back to the WebAuthin
registration endpoint, okay?
Because the service is still running.
Let me restart the service.
It's in memory.
It's got that.
You can.
By the way, it's a bean, right?
You create an object of a certain type
that implements the interface and
you can store the stuff in SQL or
you can start in memory,
you can start in MongoDB, whatever.
Okay, restart, Josh, there you go.
So no passkeys, no pass keys.
Okay.
The world is.
The world is consistent again.
I'm gonna register a new one.
So mbp, okay, register.
And instead of choosing touch id,
I'm going to choose other options.
And there I'm going to say
register with my iPhone.
So I don't trust this terminal.
I'm at a computer that has goodness
knows what spyware on it and
stuff like that, and
cameras pointed at me and all that stuff.
So instead of doing that, I.
I'm gonna log in with my iPhone,
which I do trust.
This I've had in my pocket the entire
time I've come to this library.
So I now hit continue and
it's going to ask me to scan this QR code,
which I shall do.
And it says, do I want to sign in?
It says,
do I want to store it in passwords?
Or my bit warden, I'll choose passwords.
It's asking me to do face id.
Okay, and now I've got a WebAuth in there.
Did you see that thing update
while I was looking at my camera?
So now I've got a token.
And I never entered a password.
I never gave my fingerprint.
I never did anything with this computer.
I did it with a trusted factor,
my phone or my.
Actually, you can also
do it with your watch,
right, if you have the Apple watch on.
I don't have the Apple watch on because
the glare is weird when I'm gesticulating
in the camera.
Okay, so now we go here, log out.
Let me just do a new incognito mode.
Here we go.
So now log in again, finger down,
okay, that works.
Now let's log out again.
Localhost:8080 and
I'll sign in with a passkey this time.
And this time I'm going to use
my phone again because again,
I don't trust this dirty computer.
Okay, so now I'm going to choose continue,
scan the QR code.
Do I want to do face ID to sign in?
Continue.
Okay, and there we go.
Hello, Josh.
Good.
Any questions on that stuff?
That's a really great experience.
That's not just the more
secure experience,
it's actually the easier one too.
Nobody has to remember a password.
They don't have to learn
about password managers.
They just have to have their phone or
their watch or whatever and
Google has the same sort of
arrangement in the Android space.
As far as I know.
You can also store this stuff
in your password manager.
1Password bitwarden they all support.
So as long as you've got your password
manager, you can authenticate with that
instead of in lieu of icloud, which is
acting as the holder of the passkey.
Very, very powerful.